README.md, before:

# Change Nozzles

Change the nozzle size on your klipper printer without editing the config and rebooting.

Adds one new command:
CHANGE_NOZZLE [EXTRUDER=<config_name>] [NOZZLE_DIAMETER=<nozzle_diameter>] [MAX_EXTRUDE_CROSS_SECTION=<pressure_advance_smooth_time>]

Exposes 2 new values on extruder objects:
```
extruder.nozzle_diameter
extruder.max_extruder_ratio
```

e.g.:
```
// printer['extruder'] = {'can_extrude': False,
// 'max_extrude_ratio': 7.899282073458969,
// 'nozzle_diameter': 0.4,
// 'power': 0.0,
// 'pressure_advance': 0.07,
// 'smooth_time': 0.04,
// 'target': 0.0,
// 'temperature': 21.99}
```

This can be used in purge line and calibration print macros that want to extrude
 an appropriate amount of plastic relative to the nozzle size.

# Filaments - Filament Presets for Klipper

# Installing

Clone this git repo to your printers home directory (e.g. /home/pi):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/garethky/change-nozzle-klipper-extra.git
```

Then run the install script. The install script assumes that Klipper is also installed in your home directory under "klipper": `${HOME}/klipper`.

```bash
cd ~/change-nozzle-klipper-extra
./install.sh
```

Optionally you can tell Moonraker's update manager about this plugin by 
adding this configuration block to the `moonraker.conf` of your printer:

```text
[update_manager client Filaments]
type: git_repo
path: ~/change-nozzle-klipper-extra
primary_branch: mainline
origin: https://github.com/garethky/change-nozzle-klipper-extra.git
install_script: install.sh
managed_services: klipper
```

----

# G-Code Commands

### [change_nozzle]
The following commands are available when a [filaments config section](#filaments) is enabled.

#### CHANGE_NOZZLE
`CHANGE_NOZZLE EXTRUDER=<config_name>] [NOZZLE_DIAMETER=<nozzle_diameter>]
[MAX_EXTRUDE_CROSS_SECTION=<pressure_advance_smooth_time>]`: Set the 
`nozzle_diameter` and `max_extrude_cross_section` properties of an extruder 
(overriding the settings defined in an [extruder](Config_Reference.md#extruder 
config section). If EXTRUDER is not specified, it defaults to the extruder in
the the active hotend.

----

# Config Reference
This extra requires that you have `[save_variables]` set up. If you don't it will throw an exception on startup.

## [change-nozzle]
Enable the `CHANGE_NOZZLE` command
```
[change-nozzle]
```

Commit message:

Add warning to readme
plus fix a small typo in the code

README.md, after:

# Change Nozzles

Change the nozzle diameter on your klipper printer without editing the config and rebooting.

Adds one new command:
CHANGE_NOZZLE [EXTRUDER=<config_name>] [NOZZLE_DIAMETER=<nozzle_diameter>] [MAX_EXTRUDE_CROSS_SECTION=<pressure_advance_smooth_time>]

Exposes 2 new values on extruder objects:
```
extruder.nozzle_diameter
extruder.max_extruder_ratio
```

e.g.:
```
// printer['extruder'] = {'can_extrude': False,
// 'max_extrude_ratio': 7.899282073458969,
// 'nozzle_diameter': 0.4,
// 'power': 0.0,
// 'pressure_advance': 0.07,
// 'smooth_time': 0.04,
// 'target': 0.0,
// 'temperature': 21.99}
```

This can be used in purge line and calibration print macros that want to extrude
 an appropriate amount of plastic relative to the nozzle size.

## ⚠️ Warning: This extra is potentially brittle and may be broken by Klipper changes

This extra relies on some [internal details](https://github.com/Klipper3d/klipper/blame/4671cf2d0e3ec864e72766cb1f6e24f1a308f794/klippy/kinematics/extruder.py#L164) of Extruder.py not changing. The code is pretty stable and hasn't changed in around 4 years. But if you see this code change please file a bug here an dI will attempt to get it back up to date in a timely manner.

I'd prefer if this was a patch but this way its something the community can use while we work to merge this into klipper. The end of life plan here is to copy the pattern from how [frame expansion compensation](https://github.com/alchemyEngine/klipper_frame_expansion_comp/blob/a6e0fe0735604aef89cba6962e2cab08a8ac1895/frame_expansion_compensation.py#L69) was merged. You'll get an update that turns this into something that just prints a warning.

# Filaments - Filament Presets for Klipper

# Installing

Clone this git repo to your printers home directory (e.g. /home/pi):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/garethky/change-nozzle-klipper-extra.git
```

Then run the install script. The install script assumes that Klipper is also installed in your home directory under "klipper": `${HOME}/klipper`.

```bash
cd ~/change-nozzle-klipper-extra
./install.sh
```

Optionally you can tell Moonraker's update manager about this plugin by 
adding this configuration block to the `moonraker.conf` of your printer:

```text
[update_manager client Filaments]
type: git_repo
path: ~/change-nozzle-klipper-extra
primary_branch: mainline
origin: https://github.com/garethky/change-nozzle-klipper-extra.git
install_script: install.sh
managed_services: klipper
```

----

# G-Code Commands

### [change_nozzle]
The following commands are available when a [filaments config section](#filaments) is enabled.

#### CHANGE_NOZZLE
`CHANGE_NOZZLE EXTRUDER=<config_name>] [NOZZLE_DIAMETER=<nozzle_diameter>]
[MAX_EXTRUDE_CROSS_SECTION=<pressure_advance_smooth_time>]`: Set the 
`nozzle_diameter` and `max_extrude_cross_section` properties of an extruder 
(overriding the settings defined in an [extruder](Config_Reference.md#extruder 
config section). If EXTRUDER is not specified, it defaults to the extruder in
the the active hotend.

----

# Config Reference
This extra requires that you have `[save_variables]` set up. If you don't it will throw an exception on startup.

## [change-nozzle]
Enable the `CHANGE_NOZZLE` command
```
[change-nozzle]
```
